get-started: update .net deployment (#18400)
docker/docs: content/language/dotnet/deploy.md

---
title: Test your .NET deployment
keywords: deploy, .net, local, development
description: Learn how to deploy your application
---

## Prerequisites

- Complete all the previous sections of this guide, starting with [Containerize
  a .NET application](containerize.md).
- [Turn on Kubernetes](/desktop/kubernetes/#turn-on-kubernetes) in Docker
  Desktop.

## Overview

In this section, you'll learn how to use Docker Desktop to deploy your
application to a fully-featured Kubernetes environment on your development
machine. This allows you to test and debug your workloads on Kubernetes locally
before deploying.

## Create a Kubernetes YAML file

> In your `docker-dotnet-sample` directory, create a file name

Reviewer: Possible typo: 
```suggestion
In your `docker-dotnet-sample` directory, create a file named
```

    type: Recreate
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        service: db
    spec:
      containers:
        - env:
            - name: POSTGRES_DB
              value: example
            - name: POSTGRES_PASSWORD
              value: example
          image: postgres
          name: db
          ports:
            - containerPort: 5432
              protocol: TCP
          resources: {}
      restartPolicy: Always
status: {}
---
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  labels:
    service: server
  name: server
  namespace: default
spec:
  type: NodePort
  ports:
    - name: "8080"
      port: 8080
      targetPort: 80
      nodePort: 30001
  selector:
    service: server
status:
  loadBalancer: {}
---
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  labels:
    service: db
  name: db
  namespace: default
spec:
  ports:
    - name: "5432"
      port: 5432
      targetPort: 5432
  selector:
    service: db
status:
  loadBalancer: {}
```

In this Kubernetes YAML file, there are four objects, separated by the `---`. In addition to a Service and Deployment for the database, the other two objects are:

 - A Deployment, describing a scalable group of identical pods. In this case,

>    you'll get just one replica, or copy of your pod, and that pod (which is

Reviewer: Potential to break this up to make it easier to read: 
```suggestion
   you'll get just one replica, or copy of your pod. That pod (which is
```

   described under the template: key) has just one container in it, based off of
    the image built by GitHub Actions in [Configure CI/CD for your .NET application](configure-ci-cd.md).
 - A NodePort service, which will route traffic from port 30001 on your host to
   port 8080 inside the pods it routes to, allowing you to reach your app
   from the network.

To learn more about Kubernetes objects, see the [Kubernetes documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/home/).

## Deploy and check your application

> 1. In a terminal, navigate the `docker-dotnet-sample` directory

Reviewer: Small typo: 
```suggestion
1. In a terminal, navigate to the `docker-dotnet-sample` directory
```

In this Kubernetes YAML file, there are four objects, separated by the `---`. In addition to a Service and Deployment for the database, the other two objects are:

 - A Deployment, describing a scalable group of identical pods. In this case,
   you'll get just one replica, or copy of your pod. That pod, which is
   described under `template`, has just one container in it. The container is

>     based off of the image built by GitHub Actions in [Configure CI/CD for your

Reviewer 2: ?

```suggestion
    created from the image built by GitHub Actions in [Configure CI/CD for your
```
